Node.js is a runtime environment that lets you run JavaScript outside the browser — usually on a server.

Normally, JavaScript only runs inside web browsers (like Chrome) to make websites interactive. Node.js takes the same JavaScript language and lets it run directly on your computer or a server, so you can use it to build backend applications — things like APIs, databases connections, file handling, etc.

Key things to know:

Built on Chrome's V8 engine — the same JS engine that powers Chrome, just repackaged to run standalone.
Non-blocking / asynchronous — Node is really good at handling many requests at once without getting stuck waiting (great for servers).
npm (Node Package Manager) comes bundled with it — a huge ecosystem of free packages/libraries you can install (like Axios, which you're already using).
Single language everywhere — you can use JavaScript for both frontend (React, etc.) and backend (Node) instead of learning a totally different language for the server side.

What you use it for in backend dev:

Creating servers (often with a framework like Express.js on top of Node)
Building REST APIs
Connecting to databases (MongoDB, PostgreSQL, etc.)
Handling authentication, file uploads, etc.


//Node REPL
REPL-->
R-- read 
E-evaluate
P--print
L--loop
 An interactive shell where you can run JavaScript code line-by-line directly in your terminal — no need to create a .js file. Comes built into Node.js.

How to start it
bash
node

This opens the REPL prompt:

>
The 4 steps it performs (hence the name)
Read — reads your JS input
Eval — evaluates/executes it
Print — prints the result
Loop — goes back to waiting for more input
Basic usage
js
> 2 + 3
5
> let name = "Srushti"
undefined
> console.log(name)
Srushti
undefined
> name.toUpperCase()
'SRUSHTI'

(Note: undefined shows up after statements that don't return a value, like console.log() or a let declaration — normal, not an error.)

Useful REPL commands
Command	What it does
.help	shows all REPL commands
.exit or Ctrl+D	exits the REPL
Ctrl+C (twice)	force exit
.clear	resets the current context
.save filename.js	saves session to a file
.load filename.js	loads a file into REPL
_	holds the last evaluated result
Why it's useful
Quickly test small snippets of JS/Node code without creating a file
Explore how built-in objects/methods behave (Math, Array, String, etc.)
Debug or experiment with Node core modules like fs, http, path


we use New-Item "script.js" to create file
once the file gets created in vscode and u write code in it u can then run to it on terminal using node filename
process
process: THis object provides information about,and control over,the current Node.js process
process.argv:returns an array containing the command line arguments passed when the Node.js process was launched

#module.exports
requiring files
require() a built -in-function to include external modules that exist in separate files
module.exports a special object
  